---
layout: default
root: ../
title: Multi-scale modeling of tsunami forces on coastal structures
author: Mike Motley
level: intermediate
---

# Multi-scale modeling of tsunami forces on coastal structures

Mike Motley, University of Washington

Much of the recent research on tsunami events has focused largely on
inundation, evacuation, and only more recently, and to a lesser extent, on
tsunami-induced forces on coastal structures.  It can be challenging to develop
models that accurately predict structural response to tsunami loading events,
and there is still much uncertainty in regard to predicting tsunami loads.
Increased computing power has prompted the development of novel numerical
approaches tailored to capture specific physical phenomena with high-levels of
resolution and accuracy.  In an effort to bridge the gap between inundation
modeling and structural design, this work uses a three-dimensional
computational fluid dynamics approach to predict the temporal and spatial
dynamics of tsunami wave loading on coastal structures at multiple scales.
 
It is common to see tsunami loading on a structure with a complex geometry,
such as a bridge superstructure, as time histories of the total horizontal and
vertical forces on the entire system or even as a singular maximum total load.
While this gives some notion of the magnitude of tsunami impact, it does not
necessarily provide information about how the load is distributed, which
structural components are most critical, or how the complexities of the
fluid-air-structure interaction phenomena inherent to the wave impact
contribute to the force histories.  This work presents a detailed,
component-based analysis of wave impact on a series of girder bridges to
examine this problem.  Less expensive two-dimensional models are applied to
capture the component-based physics of the problem.  These models, however, do
not account for three-dimensional phenomena such as bathymetry or geometric
effects.  A comparison of two- and three-dimensional bridge models will be
presented and discrepancies will be discussed.  Lastly, a brief discussion of
community-scale force modeling will be presented to show the general effects of
flow through an idealized community to demonstrate the importance of
incorporating the constructed environment for local force predictions.